# Statistical-analysis-on-Breast-Cancer-Proteomes
The dataset Breast Cancer Proteomes Dataset Breast Cancer is a multifactorial disease that forms in the cells of the breast. Breast cancer can occur in both men and women, but it's far more common in women. Dataset Description This data set contains published iTRAQ proteome profiling of 77 breast cancer samples generated by the Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (NCI/NIH). It contains expression values for ~12.000 proteins for each sample, with missing values present when a given protein could not be quantified in a given sample. This dataset consist of 3 tables:
77_cancer_proteomes_CPTAC_itraq.csv This table includes protein expression values and metadata on 12553 genes from 80 breast cancer patients and 3 healthy individuals. • RefSeqaccessionnumber: RefSeq protein ID (each protein has a unique ID in a RefSeq database) • gene_symbol: a symbol unique to each gene (every protein is encoded by some gene) • gene_name: a full name of that gene Remaining columns: log2 iTRAQ ratios for each sample (protein expression data, most important), three last columns are from healthy individuals

clinical_data_breast_cancer.csv This table contains clinical data and various breast cancer classifications from 105 breast cancer patients • First column "Complete TCGA ID" is used to match the sample IDs in the main cancer proteomes file • Other columns contain data about the cancer classification of a given sample using different methods

PAM50_proteins.csv This table contains the list of genes and proteins used by the PAM50 classification system. The column RefSeqProteinID contains the protein IDs that can be matched with the IDs in the main protein expression data set.

Part1: Data preprocessing 1.1.Subset the columns of proteomes table. As you learned about genomic datasets you will find:

The columns in proteomes table represent patients samples
The rows in clinical data table also represent patients samples You will find that number of columns don’t match so you need to subset the data in both proteomes table and clinical data table to keep the data of patient samples that exist in both tables. (Like inner join in DBs) Note: you will find that the IDs in the two tables don’t have the same format so you will need to find a way to match the formats. 1.2. Subset the rows of proteomes table by removing rows with missing values
